static_core/tests/vm-benchmarks/readme.md, before:

# VM Benchmarks

VMB is a tool for running benchmarks for variety of Virtual Machines,
platforms and languages.

## Quick start

The only requirement is python3 (3.7+), no additional modules needed.
Virtual Machine to test should be installed on host and/or device.
See [Notes on setup for platforms](#platforms).

#### Option 1: Using wrapper script

This option is to try VMB without any installation involved.

```shell
# Run all js and ts examples on Node (needs node and tsc):
./run-vmb.sh all -p node_host `pwd`/examples/benchmarks

# Run all only js examples on Node (needs node installed):
./run-vmb.sh all -l js -p node_host `pwd`/examples/benchmarks

# See all options explained:
./run-vmb.sh help

# List all available plugins:
./run-vmb.sh list
```

#### Option2: Build and install vmb module (preferred)

Wrapper script `run-vmb.sh` has all the module functionality,
but it requires absolute paths in cmdline.
Python package, built and installed, provides more flexibility
in dealing with various benchmark sources and repos.
Once installed it exposes single `vmb` command for generating,
running and reporting tests.

```sh
# This command will build and install VMB python module on your machine.
# No root permissions required.
# After that `vmb` cli will appear in your $PATH

make vmb

# Run all js and ts tests in current dir
vmb all -p node_host

# Run only js tests with tag 'sanity' from 'examples'
vmb all -p node_host -l js -T sanity ./examples
```

#### Usage Example: Compare 2 runs

```shell
export PANDA_BUILD=~/arkcompiler/runtime_core/static_core/build
# Run ets and ts tests on ArkTS in
# 1) interpretation mode
vmb all -p arkts_host --aot-skip-libs \
    --mode=int --report-json=int.json ./examples/benchmarks/
# 2) in JIT mode
vmb all -p arkts_host --aot-skip-libs \
    --mode=jit --report-json=jit.json ./examples/benchmarks/
# Compare results
vmb report --compare int.json jit.json

    Comparison: arkts_host-int vs arkts_host-jit
    ========================================
    Time: 1.99e+05->3.80e+04(better -80.9%); Size: 9.17e+04->9.17e+04(same); RSS: 4.94e+04->5.34e+04(worse +8.1%)
    =============================================================================================================
```

## Commands:
`vmb` cli supports following commands:
- `gen` - generate benchmark tests from [doclets](#doclet-format)
- `run` - run tests generated by `gen` or [non doclet tests](#non-doclet-tests)
- `all` = `gen` + `run`
- `report` - works with json report (display, compare)
- `list` - show info supported langs and platforms
- `help` - print options for all the commands. (Also `vmb <cmd> --help`)

## Selecting platform
Required `-p` (`--platform`) option to `run` or `all` command should be the name
of plugin from `<vmb-package-root>/plugins/platforms`
or from `<extra-plugins-dir>/platforms` if specified.
F.e. `ark_js_vm_host` - for ArkHz on host machine,
or `arkts_ohos` - for ArkTS on OHOS device

## Selecting language and source files
`gen` command requires `-l` (`--langs`) option.
F.e. `vmb gen -l ets,swift,ts,js ./examples/benchmarks`
will generate benches for all 4 languages in examples.

Then provided to `all` command `--langs` will override langs, supported by platform.
F.e. `vmb all -l js -p v_8_host ./tests` will skip `ts` (typescript)

Source files (doclets) could be overridden
by `--src-langs` option to `all` or `run` command.

Each platform defines languages it can deal with,
and each language defines its source file extension.
Defaults are:

| platform      | langs      | sources         |
|---------------|------------|-----------------|
| `arkts_*`     | `ets`      | `*.ets`, `*.ts` |
| `ark_js_vm_*` | `ts`       | `*.ts`          |
| `swift_*`     | `swift`    | `*.swift`       |
| `v_8_*`       | `ts`, `js` | `*.ts`, `*.js`  |
| `node_*`      | `ts`, `js` | `*.ts`, `*.js`  |

## Selecting and filtering tests:
- Any positional argument to `all` or `gen` command would be treated
as path to doclets: `vmb all -p x ./test1/test1.js ./more-tests/ ./even-more`
- Any positional argument to `run` command would be treated
as path to generated tests: `vmb run -p x ./generated`
- Files with `.lst` extension would be treated as lists of paths, relative to `CWD`
- `--tags=sanity,my` (`-T`) will generate and run only tests tagged with `sanity` OR `my`
- `--tests=my_test` (`-t`) will run only tests containing `my_test` in name
- To exclude some tests from run point `--exclude-list` to the file with test names to exclude
- To exclude tests with tags use `-ST` (`--skip-tags`) option. F.e. `--skip-tags=negative,flaky`

## Benchmark's measurement options:
* `-wi` (`--warmup-iters`) controls the number of warmup iterations,
  default is 2.
* `-mi` (`--measure-iters`) controls the number of measurement iterations,
  default is 3.
* `-it` (`--iter-time`) controls the duration of iterations in seconds,
  default is 1.
* `-wt` (`--warmup-time`) controls the duration of warmup iterations in seconds,
  default is 1.
* `-gc` (`--sys-gc-pause`) Non-negative value forces GC (twice)
  and <value> milliseconds sleep before each iteration
  (GC finish can't be guaranteed on all VM's), default is -1 (no forced GC).
* `-fi` (`--fast-iters`) Number of 'fast' iterations
  (no warmup, no tuning cycles).
  Benchmark will run this number of iterations, regardless of time elapsed.

## Custom options
To provide additional option to compiler or virtual machine
`--<tool>-custom-option` could be used. F.e. add cpu profiling for `node`:
`vmb all -p node_host --node-custom-option='--cpu-prof' -v debug ./examples/benchmarks/ts/VoidBench.ts`


## Reports:
* `--report-json=path.json` to save results in json format,
   this is most detailed report.
  `--report-json-compact` disables prettifying of json.
* `--report-csv=path.csv` to save results in csv format. Only basic info included.

## Controlling log:
There are several log levels which could be set via `--log-level` option.
- `fatal`: only critical errors will be printed
- `pass`: print single line for each test after it finishes
- `error`
- `warn`
- `info`: default level
- `debug`
- `trace`: most verbose

Each level prints in its own color.
`--no-color` disables color and adds `[%LEVEL]` prefix to each message.

## Extra (custom) plugins:

Providing option `--extra-plugins` you can add any
language, tool, platform or hook.
This parameter should point to the directory containing any combination of
`hooks`, `langs`, `platforms`, `tools` sub-dirs.
As the simplest case you can copy any of the existing plugins
and safely experiment modifying it.
`extra-plugins` has higher 'priority', so any tools, platforms and langs
could be 'overridden' by custom ones.

```sh
# Example:
# 2 demo plugins: Tool=dummy and Platform=dummy_host
mkdir bu_Fake
touch bu_Fake/bench_Fake.txt
vmb run -p dummy_host \
    --extra-plugins=./examples/plugins \
    ./bu_Fake/bench_Fake.txt
```

## Doclet format:
This is a mean for benchmark declaration in source file.
In a single root class it is possible to define any number of benchmarks,
setup method, benchmarks parameters, run options and some additional meta-info.
See examples in `examples/benchamrks` directory.

Using this test format involves separate generation stage (`gen` command).
Resulting benchmark programs will be generated using templates
in `plugins/templates` into `generated` directory
(which could be overriden by `--outdir` option)

Supported doclets are:
* `@State` on a root class which contains benchmarks tests as its methods.
* `@Setup` on an initialization method of a state.
* `@Benchmark` on a method that is measured.
   It should not accept any parameters and
   (preferably) it may return a value which is consumed.
* `@Param  p1 [, p2...]` on a state field.
   Attribute define values to create several benchmarks using same code,
   and all combinations of params.
   Value can be an int, a string or a comma separated list of ints or strings.
* `@Tags t1 [, t2...]` on a root class or method. List of benchmark tags.
* `@Bugs b1 [, b2...]` on a root class or method. List of associated issues.

JS specific doclets (JSDoc-like) are:
* `@arg {<State name>} <name>` on a benchmark method.
   Links a proper state class to each parameter.
* `@returns {Bool|Char|Int|Float|Obj|Objs}` optionally on a benchmark method.
   Helps to build automatic `Consumer` usage.

## Non-doclet tests

It is possible to write 'free-style' tests which can be ran as is.
VMB will search bench units in directories with `bu_` prefix and files with
`bench_` prefix.
Test result should be reported by program
as `Benchmark result: <TestName> <time in ns>`.

## Platforms

### ArkTS (arkts_*)
On host: env var `PANDA_BUILD` should be set to point to `build` directory
f.e. `~/arkcompiler/runtime_core/static_core/build`

On device: `ark` and `ark_aot` binaries with required libraries should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb` and could be configured via `--device-dir`

By default `etsstdlib` will be compiled into native code,
to avoid this use `--aot-skip-libs` (`-A`) option

### Ark JS VM (ark_js_vm_*)
On host: env var `OHOS_SDK` sould be set to point to OHOS SDK source directory
inside which `out/*.release` should contain built binaries

On device: `ark_js_vm` and `ark_aot_compiler` should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb` and could be configured via `--device-dir`

### V_8
For device platforms: required binaries should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb/v_8`.
`/data/local/tmp/vmb` part could be configured via `--device-dir`

## Platform Features

| platform          | int-mode | aot-mode | jit-mode | gc-stats | jit-stats | aot-stats | imports |
|-------------------|:--------:|:--------:|:--------:|:--------:|:---------:|:---------:|:-------:|
| ark_js_vm_host    |   n/a    |    V     |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| ark_js_vm_ohos    |   n/a    |    V     |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| arkts_device      |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| arkts_host        |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| arkts_ohos        |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| node_host         |   n/a    |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| swift_device      |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    X    |
| swift_host        |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    X    |
| v_8_device        |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| v_8_host          |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| v_8_ohos          |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |


## Interoperability tests:

#### Freestyle
Please refer to [this manual](./interop.readme.md) for freestyle benchmark development and running guide.

#### Doclet
Allows use corpus of existing VMB tests in interop mode.
Benchmarks are generated from ets [doclets](#doclet-format).

```shell
export PANDA_BUILD=$HOME/ark-built-with-interop/runtime_core/static_core/build
vmb all -p arkts_node_interop_host -v debug ./examples/benchmarks/ets
```

## Self tests and linters
```sh
make tox
```

Commit message:

VMB hap support
Issue: https://gitee.com/openharmony/arkcompiler_runtime_core/issues/IBYDRK
Tests: all tests in CI passed

Signed-off-by: mr_aramis <loko.motiv@huawei-partners.com>

static_core/tests/vm-benchmarks/readme.md, after:

# VM Benchmarks

VMB is a tool for running benchmarks for variety of Virtual Machines,
platforms and languages.

## Quick start

The only requirement is python3 (3.7+), no additional modules needed.
Virtual Machine to test should be installed on host and/or device.
See [Notes on setup for platforms](#platforms).

#### Option 1: Using wrapper script

This option is to try VMB without any installation involved.

```shell
# Run all js and ts examples on Node (needs node and tsc):
./run-vmb.sh all -p node_host `pwd`/examples/benchmarks

# Run all only js examples on Node (needs node installed):
./run-vmb.sh all -l js -p node_host `pwd`/examples/benchmarks

# See all options explained:
./run-vmb.sh help

# List all available plugins:
./run-vmb.sh list
```

#### Option2: Build and install vmb module (preferred)

Wrapper script `run-vmb.sh` has all the module functionality,
but it requires absolute paths in cmdline.
Python package, built and installed, provides more flexibility
in dealing with various benchmark sources and repos.
Once installed it exposes single `vmb` command for generating,
running and reporting tests.

```sh
# This command will build and install VMB python module on your machine.
# No root permissions required.
# After that `vmb` cli will appear in your $PATH

make vmb

# Run all js and ts tests in current dir
vmb all -p node_host

# Run only js tests with tag 'sanity' from 'examples'
vmb all -p node_host -l js -T sanity ./examples
```

#### Usage Example: Compare 2 runs

```shell
export PANDA_BUILD=~/arkcompiler/runtime_core/static_core/build
# Run ets and ts tests on ArkTS in
# 1) interpretation mode
vmb all -p arkts_host --aot-skip-libs \
    --mode=int --report-json=int.json ./examples/benchmarks/
# 2) in JIT mode
vmb all -p arkts_host --aot-skip-libs \
    --mode=jit --report-json=jit.json ./examples/benchmarks/
# Compare results
vmb report --compare int.json jit.json

    Comparison: arkts_host-int vs arkts_host-jit
    ========================================
    Time: 1.99e+05->3.80e+04(better -80.9%); Size: 9.17e+04->9.17e+04(same); RSS: 4.94e+04->5.34e+04(worse +8.1%)
    =============================================================================================================
```

## Commands:
`vmb` cli supports following commands:
- `gen` - generate benchmark tests from [doclets](#doclet-format)
- `run` - run tests generated by `gen` or [non doclet tests](#non-doclet-tests)
- `all` = `gen` + `run`
- `report` - works with json report (display, compare)
- `list` - show info supported langs and platforms
- `help` - print options for all the commands. (Also `vmb <cmd> --help`)

## Selecting platform
Required `-p` (`--platform`) option to `run` or `all` command should be the name
of plugin from `<vmb-package-root>/plugins/platforms`
or from `<extra-plugins-dir>/platforms` if specified.
F.e. `ark_js_vm_host` - for ArkHz on host machine,
or `arkts_ohos` - for ArkTS on OHOS device

## Selecting language and source files
`gen` command requires `-l` (`--langs`) option.
F.e. `vmb gen -l ets,swift,ts,js ./examples/benchmarks`
will generate benches for all 4 languages in examples.

Then provided to `all` command `--langs` will override langs, supported by platform.
F.e. `vmb all -l js -p v_8_host ./tests` will skip `ts` (typescript)

Source files (doclets) could be overridden
by `--src-langs` option to `all` or `run` command.

Each platform defines languages it can deal with,
and each language defines its source file extension.
Defaults are:

| platform      | langs      | sources         |
|---------------|------------|-----------------|
| `arkts_*`     | `ets`      | `*.ets`, `*.ts` |
| `ark_js_vm_*` | `ts`       | `*.ts`          |
| `swift_*`     | `swift`    | `*.swift`       |
| `v_8_*`       | `ts`, `js` | `*.ts`, `*.js`  |
| `node_*`      | `ts`, `js` | `*.ts`, `*.js`  |

## Selecting and filtering tests:
- Any positional argument to `all` or `gen` command would be treated
as path to doclets: `vmb all -p x ./test1/test1.js ./more-tests/ ./even-more`
- Any positional argument to `run` command would be treated
as path to generated tests: `vmb run -p x ./generated`
- Files with `.lst` extension would be treated as lists of paths, relative to `CWD`
- `--tags=sanity,my` (`-T`) will generate and run only tests tagged with `sanity` OR `my`
- `--tests=my_test` (`-t`) will run only tests containing `my_test` in name
- To exclude some tests from run point `--exclude-list` to the file with test names to exclude
- To exclude tests with tags use `-ST` (`--skip-tags`) option. F.e. `--skip-tags=negative,flaky`

## Benchmark's measurement options:
* `-wi` (`--warmup-iters`) controls the number of warmup iterations,
  default is 2.
* `-mi` (`--measure-iters`) controls the number of measurement iterations,
  default is 3.
* `-it` (`--iter-time`) controls the duration of iterations in seconds,
  default is 1.
* `-wt` (`--warmup-time`) controls the duration of warmup iterations in seconds,
  default is 1.
* `-gc` (`--sys-gc-pause`) Non-negative value forces GC (twice)
  and <value> milliseconds sleep before each iteration
  (GC finish can't be guaranteed on all VM's), default is -1 (no forced GC).
* `-fi` (`--fast-iters`) Number of 'fast' iterations
  (no warmup, no tuning cycles).
  Benchmark will run this number of iterations, regardless of time elapsed.

## Custom options
To provide additional option to compiler or virtual machine
`--<tool>-custom-option` could be used. F.e. add cpu profiling for `node`:
`vmb all -p node_host --node-custom-option='--cpu-prof' -v debug ./examples/benchmarks/ts/VoidBench.ts`


## Reports:
* `--report-json=path.json` to save results in json format,
   this is most detailed report.
  `--report-json-compact` disables prettifying of json.
* `--report-csv=path.csv` to save results in csv format. Only basic info included.

## Controlling log:
There are several log levels which could be set via `--log-level` option.
- `fatal`: only critical errors will be printed
- `pass`: print single line for each test after it finishes
- `error`
- `warn`
- `info`: default level
- `debug`
- `trace`: most verbose

Each level prints in its own color.
`--no-color` disables color and adds `[%LEVEL]` prefix to each message.

## Extra (custom) plugins:

Providing option `--extra-plugins` you can add any
language, tool, platform or hook.
This parameter should point to the directory containing any combination of
`hooks`, `langs`, `platforms`, `tools` sub-dirs.
As the simplest case you can copy any of the existing plugins
and safely experiment modifying it.
`extra-plugins` has higher 'priority', so any tools, platforms and langs
could be 'overridden' by custom ones.

```sh
# Example:
# 2 demo plugins: Tool=dummy and Platform=dummy_host
mkdir bu_Fake
touch bu_Fake/bench_Fake.txt
vmb run -p dummy_host \
    --extra-plugins=./examples/plugins \
    ./bu_Fake/bench_Fake.txt
```

## Doclet format:
This is a mean for benchmark declaration in source file.
In a single root class it is possible to define any number of benchmarks,
setup method, benchmarks parameters, run options and some additional meta-info.
See examples in `examples/benchamrks` directory.

Using this test format involves separate generation stage (`gen` command).
Resulting benchmark programs will be generated using templates
in `plugins/templates` into `generated` directory
(which could be overriden by `--outdir` option)

Supported doclets are:
* `@State` on a root class which contains benchmarks tests as its methods.
* `@Setup` on an initialization method of a state.
* `@Benchmark` on a method that is measured.
   It should not accept any parameters and
   (preferably) it may return a value which is consumed.
* `@Param  p1 [, p2...]` on a state field.
   Attribute define values to create several benchmarks using same code,
   and all combinations of params.
   Value can be an int, a string or a comma separated list of ints or strings.
* `@Tags t1 [, t2...]` on a root class or method. List of benchmark tags.
* `@Bugs b1 [, b2...]` on a root class or method. List of associated issues.

JS specific doclets (JSDoc-like) are:
* `@arg {<State name>} <name>` on a benchmark method.
   Links a proper state class to each parameter.
* `@returns {Bool|Char|Int|Float|Obj|Objs}` optionally on a benchmark method.
   Helps to build automatic `Consumer` usage.

## Non-doclet tests

It is possible to write 'free-style' tests which can be ran as is.
VMB will search bench units in directories with `bu_` prefix and files with
`bench_` prefix.
Test result should be reported by program
as `Benchmark result: <TestName> <time in ns>`.

## Platforms

### ArkTS (arkts_*)
On host: env var `PANDA_BUILD` should be set to point to `build` directory
f.e. `~/arkcompiler/runtime_core/static_core/build`

On device: `ark` and `ark_aot` binaries with required libraries should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb` and could be configured via `--device-dir`

By default `etsstdlib` will be compiled into native code,
to avoid this use `--aot-skip-libs` (`-A`) option

### Ark JS VM (ark_js_vm_*)
On host: env var `OHOS_SDK` sould be set to point to OHOS SDK source directory
inside which `out/*.release` should contain built binaries

On device: `ark_js_vm` and `ark_aot_compiler` should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb` and could be configured via `--device-dir`

### V_8
For device platforms: required binaries should be pushed to device.
Default place is `/data/local/tmp/vmb/v_8`.
`/data/local/tmp/vmb` part could be configured via `--device-dir`

### Hap (Ability Package) - Experimental
This platform allows to run `arkts/ets` benchmarks as application ability

##### Prerequisites:
- `PANDA_SDK` env var should point to unpacked Panda OHOS SDK (package dir)
- `OHOS_BASE_SDK_HOME` env var should point to unpacked OHOS SDK
- `hvigorw` should be in PATH or `HVIGORW` env var should point to hvigor script or binary
- `hdc` should be in PATH or `HDC` env var should point to hdc script or binary
- For signing package `HAP_SIGNING_CONFIG` env var should point to json config 
    as in `app/signingConfigs/material` section of `build-profile.json5`

##### Run
```sh
vmb all -p hap -A examples/benchmarks/ets

# --tests-per-batch option could be used to tune amount of benchmarks per one hap package (25 is the default)
```
##### Limitations
- Total test run inside app is limited to 5 sec, so `-wi` is limited to 0..1 and `-mi` to 1..2.
    `-wt` and `it` has no effect for `hap` platform.
- "Macro" benchmarks (i.e. test functions which run longer than 1 sec) won't produce benchmark result.


## Platform Features

| platform          | int-mode | aot-mode | jit-mode | gc-stats | jit-stats | aot-stats | imports |
|-------------------|:--------:|:--------:|:--------:|:--------:|:---------:|:---------:|:-------:|
| ark_js_vm_host    |   n/a    |    V     |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| ark_js_vm_ohos    |   n/a    |    V     |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| arkts_device      |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| arkts_host        |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| arkts_ohos        |    V     |    V     |    V     |    V     |     V     |     V     |    V    |
| node_host         |   n/a    |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| swift_device      |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    X    |
| swift_host        |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    X    |
| v_8_device        |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| v_8_host          |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |
| v_8_ohos          |    V     |   n/a    |    V     |   n/a    |    n/a    |    n/a    |    V    |


## Interoperability tests:

#### Freestyle
Please refer to [this manual](./interop.readme.md) for freestyle benchmark development and running guide.

#### Doclet
Allows use corpus of existing VMB tests in interop mode.
Benchmarks are generated from ets [doclets](#doclet-format).

```shell
export PANDA_BUILD=$HOME/ark-built-with-interop/runtime_core/static_core/build
vmb all -p arkts_node_interop_host -v debug ./examples/benchmarks/ets
```

## Self tests and linters
```sh
make tox
```
